src/content/blog/astro-tabbed-code-block.mdx, before:

---
title: Astro Tabbed Code Block
description: The same code block used in this site
date: 2024-03-25T03:10:44.480Z
image: $/assets/images/astro.webp
tags:
  - Astro
  - Component
  - CSS
  - TypeScript
  - UI
---
import TabbedCode from "$/components/markdown/code/tabbed.astro";

## Table of Contents

## Astro Subcomponents

The following components are the building blocks for the tabbed code block. The `block.astro` component is the main component that wraps the code block. The `nav.astro` component is the navigation bar that allows users to switch between tabs. The `frame.astro` component is the frame that wraps the code block and allows for scrolling. The `lang.astro` component is the language label that appears at the top right of the code block.

<TabbedCode>
<Fragment slot="tab-1">block.astro</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-1">
```astro
---
import { cn } from "$/util";
export interface Props extends astroHTML.JSX.HTMLAttributes {}
---

<div
	class={cn(
		"code-block group",
		"relative mb-4 mt-2 rounded-md border border-base-100 bg-neutral-900 text-base-content",
		Astro.props.class
	)}
>
	<slot />
</div>
```
</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="tab-2">nav.astro</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-2">
```astro
---
import { cn } from "$/util";

export interface Props extends astroHTML.JSX.HTMLAttributes {
	tabs?: string[];
}

const { tabs = [] } = Astro.props;
const hasDots = tabs.length <= 2;
---

<script>
	function copyBlock(el: Element) {
		const idx = el.getAttribute("data-idx");
		const pre: HTMLPreElement | null | undefined = el.parentNode?.parentNode?.querySelector(idx ? `.panel-${idx} pre` : "pre");
		if (!pre) {
			alert("No code block found to copy");
			return;
		}
		navigator.clipboard.writeText(pre.innerText);
		document.querySelectorAll(".copy").forEach((btn) => {
			btn.innerHTML = "Copy";
			btn.classList.add("bg-neutral-600");
			btn.classList.remove("bg-primary");
		});
		el.innerHTML = "Copied";
		el.classList.remove("bg-neutral-600");
		el.classList.add("bg-primary");
	}

	document.addEventListener("astro:page-load", () => {
		document.querySelectorAll("article .code-block .copy").forEach((btn) => {
			if (btn) btn.addEventListener("click", () => copyBlock(btn));
		});
	});
</script>

<nav
	class={cn(
		"flex items-center rounded-t justify-between gap-4 h-11",
		"border-b border-base-100 bg-neutral-800 p-2 text-sm",
		tabs.length && "group-[.tabbed]:py-0",
		Astro.props.class
	)}
>
	{
		hasDots && (
			<div class="flex space-x-1">
				<div class="h-2 w-2 rounded-full bg-gray-500" />
				<div class="h-2 w-2 rounded-full bg-gray-500" />
				<div class="h-2 w-2 rounded-full bg-gray-500" />
			</div>
		)
	}
	<slot />
	{
		tabs.length ? (
			tabs.map(async (_, idx) => (
				<button
					class={cn(
						`copy copy-${idx + 1} inline-block rounded-md bg-neutral-600`,
						"px-2 py-1 text-sm text-neutral-100 max-sm:hidden",
						"group-[.tabbed]:hidden"
					)}
					data-idx={idx + 1}
					type="button"
				>
					Copy
				</button>
			))
		) : (
			<button class="copy inline-block rounded-md bg-neutral-600 px-2 py-1 text-sm text-neutral-100 max-sm:hidden" type="button">
				Copy
			</button>
		)
	}
</nav>
```
</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="tab-3">frame.astro</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-3">
```astro
---
import { cn } from "$/util";
export interface Props extends astroHTML.JSX.HTMLAttributes {}
---

<div class={cn("max-h-[20rem] overflow-y-auto md:max-h-[40rem]", Astro.props.class)}>
	<slot />
</div>
```
</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="tab-4">lang.astro</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-4">
```astro
---
import { cn } from "$/util";
export interface Props extends astroHTML.JSX.HTMLAttributes {}
---

<span
	class={cn(
		"absolute right-0 top-[calc(2.75rem+1px)] z-10 inline-block",
		"bg-neutral-900 px-2 py-1 text-xs uppercase text-neutral-content",
		Astro.props.class
	)}
>
	<slot />
</span>
```
</Fragment>
</TabbedCode>

## `.code-block` Component Class

The following SCSS mixin is used to style the `.code-block` component class. The mixin includes styles for the tab and the Shiki transformer styles. For more information about Shiki transformer styles, see the [Shiki documentation](https://shiki.style/packages/transformers).

<TabbedCode>
<Fragment slot="tab-1">mixins.scss</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-1">
```scss
@mixin code() {
	.code-block {
		nav label {
			max-width: calc(100vw - 160px);
			height: theme("space.11");
			white-space: nowrap;
			padding: 11px theme("space.3");
			font-size: theme("fontSize.sm");
			border-width: 2px 1px 0;
			border-style: solid;
			border-color: theme("borderColor.neutral-900");
			border-top-color: theme("borderColor.neutral-600");
			background-color: theme("backgroundColor.neutral-900");
			input[type="radio"] {
				display: none;
			}
			&:has(input[type="radio"]) {
				cursor: pointer;
				opacity: 0.5;
				&:has(:checked) {
					opacity: 1;
					border-top-color: theme("borderColor.primary");
					border-inline-color: theme("borderColor.neutral-700 / 50%");
				}
			}
			&:not(:has(input[type="radio"])) {
				border-top-color: theme("borderColor.primary");
				border-inline-color: theme("borderColor.neutral-700 / 50%");
				&::before {
					content: var(--filename);
					display: block;
					overflow: hidden;
					text-overflow: ellipsis;
				}
			}
		}
		pre {
			position: relative;
			tab-size: 2;
			code {
				&:has(.line.diff) {
					.line:not(.diff) {
						padding-left: theme("space.4");
					}
				}
				&:has(.line.focused) {
					.line:not(.focused) {
						opacity: 0.5;
						filter: blur(0.095rem);
					}
				}
				.line {
					display: inline-block;
					width: theme("width.full");
					line-height: 1.5;
					&:empty {
						display: none;
					}
					&.highlighted {
						background-color: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.1);
						&.error {
							background-color: rgba(244, 63, 94, 0.16);
						}
					}
					&.diff {
						&::before {
							display: inline-block;
							width: theme("width.4");
							text-align: center;
						}
						&.add {
							background-color: rgba(159, 122, 234, 0.16);
							&:before {
								content: "+";
								color: green;
							}
						}
						&.remove {
							background-color: rgba(244, 63, 94, 0.16);
							&:before {
								content: "-";
								color: red;
							}
						}
					}
					.highlighted-word {
						background-color: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.1);
						border: 1px solid rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.2);
						padding: 1px 3px;
						margin: -1px -3px;
						border-radius: 4px;
					}
					&.error .highlighted-word {
						background-color: transparent;
						border: 0;
						margin: 0;
						padding: 0;
						border-radius: 0;
						text-decoration: underline;
						text-decoration-style: wavy;
						text-decoration-color: rgb(205, 0, 0);
						@supports (color: color-mix(in srgb, red 80%, black)) {
							text-decoration-color: color-mix(in srgb, red 80%, black);
						}
					}
				}
			}
		}
	}
}
```
</Fragment>
</TabbedCode>

## The Component

The `code.astro` and  `pre.astro` components are also subcomponents of the `tabbed.astro` component. However, they can also be used used as the default components for rendering markdown code blocks wrapped with single or triple backticks. For more information about assigning custom components to HTML elements in `.mdx` files, see the [Astro documentation](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/markdown-content/#assigning-custom-components-to-html-elements).

The `tabbed.astro` compoennt is the main component that creates the tabbed code block. The component includes the `CodeBlock`, `CodeNav`, `CodeLang`, and `CodeFrame` components.

<TabbedCode>
<Fragment slot="tab-1">pre.astro</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-1">
```astro
---
import { cn } from "$/util";
import CodeBlock from "./block/block.astro";
import CodeFrame from "./block/frame.astro";
import CodeLang from "./block/lang.astro";
import CodeNav from "./block/nav.astro";
---

<CodeBlock class="group-[.tabbed]:m-0 group-[.tabbed]:border-0">
	<CodeNav class="group-[.tabbed]:hidden" />
	<CodeLang class="group-[.tabbed]:top-0">
		{Astro.props.lang}
	</CodeLang>
	<CodeFrame class="group-[.tabbed]:max-h-none">
		<pre class={cn(Astro.props.class, "group my-1")}><slot /></pre>
	</CodeFrame>
</CodeBlock>
```
</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="tab-2">code.astro</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-2">
```astro
---
import { cn } from "$/util";
---

<code
	class={cn(
		Astro.props.class,
		"group-[.astro-code]:bg-transparent group-[.astro-code]:text-xs rounded-sm bg-white/20 text-base-content",
		"[#table-of-contents+ul_&]:bg-transparent [#table-of-contents+ul_&]:font-montserrat",
		"[:is(h1,h2,h3,h4)>&]:bg-transparent [:is(h1,h2,h3,h4)>&]:font-robo-flex"
	)}><slot /></code>

```
</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="tab-3">tabbed.astro</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-3">
```astro
---
import { cn } from "$/util";
import CodeBlock from "./block/block.astro";
import CodeFrame from "./block/frame.astro";
import CodeNav from "./block/nav.astro";

const uuid = crypto.randomUUID();
const tabs: string[] = [];
const panels: string[] = [];

let index = 0;
const classes: string[] = [];
Object.entries(Astro.slots).forEach(([name]) => {
	if (name.startsWith("tab")) {
		index += 1;
		tabs.push(name);
		classes.push(`.tabbed:has(.radio-${index}:checked) .panel-${index}`);
		classes.push(`.tabbed:has(.radio-${index}:checked) .copy-${index}`);
	} else if (name.startsWith("panel")) {
		panels.push(name);
	}
});

const inlineStyles = classes.join(", ") + " { visibility: visible; display: inline-block !important; }";
---

<CodeBlock class="tabbed">
	{tabs.length > 0 && <style set:html={inlineStyles} />}
	<CodeNav {tabs}>
		<div class="flex flex-1 overflow-x-auto">
			{
				tabs.map(async (name, idx) => {
					const index = idx + 1;
					const render = await Astro.slots.render(name);
					return (
						<label>
							<input class={`radio-${index}`} type="radio" name={uuid} checked={index === 1 ? "" : undefined} />
							<Fragment set:html={render} />
						</label>
					);
				})
			}
		</div>
	</CodeNav>
	<CodeFrame>
		{
			panels.length ? (
				panels.map(async (name, index) => (
					<div
						class={cn(`panel-${index + 1}`, "m-0 hidden w-full rounded bg-neutral-900 text-sm text-neutral-content")}
						set:html={await Astro.slots.render(name)}
					/>
				))
			) : (
				<div class="panel-0 m-0 w-full rounded bg-neutral-900 text-sm text-neutral-content">
					<slot />
				</div>
			)
		}
	</CodeFrame>
</CodeBlock>
```
</Fragment>
</TabbedCode>

### Example

The `tabbed.astro` component is used to wrap markdown codeblocks triple backticks like the following example. Without the `tabbed.astro` component, the code block would still be rendered thanks to `pre.astro` and `code.astro` components, but without tabs.

```mdx
import TabbedCode from "$/components/markdown/code/tabbed.astro";

<TabbedCode>
<Fragment slot="tab-1">mixins.scss</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-1">
``‍`scss
@mixin code() {
	.code-block {
		nav label {
			max-width: calc(100vw - 160px);
			height: theme("space.11");
			white-space: nowrap;
			padding: 11px theme("space.3");
			font-size: theme("fontSize.sm");
			border-width: 2px 1px 0;
			border-style: solid;
			border-color: theme("borderColor.neutral-900");
			border-top-color: theme("borderColor.neutral-600");
			background-color: theme("backgroundColor.neutral-900");
			input[type="radio"] {
				display: none;
			}
			&:has(input[type="radio"]) {
				cursor: pointer;
				opacity: 0.5;
				&:has(:checked) {
					opacity: 1;
					border-top-color: theme("borderColor.primary");
					border-inline-color: theme("borderColor.neutral-700 / 50%");
				}
			}
			&:not(:has(input[type="radio"])) {
				border-top-color: theme("borderColor.primary");
				border-inline-color: theme("borderColor.neutral-700 / 50%");
				&::before {
					content: var(--filename);
					display: block;
					overflow: hidden;
					text-overflow: ellipsis;
				}
			}
		}
		pre {
			position: relative;
			tab-size: 2;
			code {
				&:has(.line.diff) {
					.line:not(.diff) {
						padding-left: theme("space.4");
					}
				}
				&:has(.line.focused) {
					.line:not(.focused) {
						opacity: 0.5;
						filter: blur(0.095rem);
					}
				}
				.line {
					display: inline-block;
					width: theme("width.full");
					line-height: 1.5;
					&:empty {
						display: none;
					}
					&.highlighted {
						background-color: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.1);
						&.error {
							background-color: rgba(244, 63, 94, 0.16);
						}
					}
					&.diff {
						&::before {
							display: inline-block;
							width: theme("width.4");
							text-align: center;
						}
						&.add {
							background-color: rgba(159, 122, 234, 0.16);
							&:before {
								content: "+";
								color: green;
							}
						}
						&.remove {
							background-color: rgba(244, 63, 94, 0.16);
							&:before {
								content: "-";
								color: red;
							}
						}
					}
					.highlighted-word {
						background-color: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.1);
						border: 1px solid rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.2);
						padding: 1px 3px;
						margin: -1px -3px;
						border-radius: 4px;
					}
					&.error .highlighted-word {
						background-color: transparent;
						border: 0;
						margin: 0;
						padding: 0;
						border-radius: 0;
						text-decoration: underline;
						text-decoration-style: wavy;
						text-decoration-color: rgb(205, 0, 0);
						@supports (color: color-mix(in srgb, red 80%, black)) {
							text-decoration-color: color-mix(in srgb, red 80%, black);
						}
					}
				}
			}
		}
	}
}
``‍`
</Fragment>
</TabbedCode>
```

Commit message:

Update image path and add source code link

src/content/blog/astro-tabbed-code-block.mdx, after:

---
title: Astro Tabbed Code Block
description: The same code block used in this site
date: 2024-03-25T03:10:44.480Z
image: $/assets/images/tabbed-code.webp
tags:
  - Astro
  - Component
  - CSS
  - TypeScript
  - UI
---
import TabbedCode from "$/components/markdown/code/tabbed.astro";

## Table of Contents

## Astro Subcomponents

The following components are the building blocks for the tabbed code block. The `block.astro` component is the main component that wraps the code block. The `nav.astro` component is the navigation bar that allows users to switch between tabs. The `frame.astro` component is the frame that wraps the code block and allows for scrolling. The `lang.astro` component is the language label that appears at the top right of the code block.

<TabbedCode>
<Fragment slot="tab-1">block.astro</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-1">
```astro
---
import { cn } from "$/util";
export interface Props extends astroHTML.JSX.HTMLAttributes {}
---

<div
	class={cn(
		"code-block group",
		"relative mb-4 mt-2 rounded-md border border-base-100 bg-neutral-900 text-base-content",
		Astro.props.class
	)}
>
	<slot />
</div>
```
</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="tab-2">nav.astro</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-2">
```astro
---
import { cn } from "$/util";

export interface Props extends astroHTML.JSX.HTMLAttributes {
	tabs?: string[];
}

const { tabs = [] } = Astro.props;
const hasDots = tabs.length <= 2;
---

<script>
	function copyBlock(el: Element) {
		const idx = el.getAttribute("data-idx");
		const pre: HTMLPreElement | null | undefined = el.parentNode?.parentNode?.querySelector(idx ? `.panel-${idx} pre` : "pre");
		if (!pre) {
			alert("No code block found to copy");
			return;
		}
		navigator.clipboard.writeText(pre.innerText);
		document.querySelectorAll(".copy").forEach((btn) => {
			btn.innerHTML = "Copy";
			btn.classList.add("bg-neutral-600");
			btn.classList.remove("bg-primary");
		});
		el.innerHTML = "Copied";
		el.classList.remove("bg-neutral-600");
		el.classList.add("bg-primary");
	}

	document.addEventListener("astro:page-load", () => {
		document.querySelectorAll("article .code-block .copy").forEach((btn) => {
			if (btn) btn.addEventListener("click", () => copyBlock(btn));
		});
	});
</script>

<nav
	class={cn(
		"flex items-center rounded-t justify-between gap-4 h-11",
		"border-b border-base-100 bg-neutral-800 p-2 text-sm",
		tabs.length && "group-[.tabbed]:py-0",
		Astro.props.class
	)}
>
	{
		hasDots && (
			<div class="flex space-x-1">
				<div class="h-2 w-2 rounded-full bg-gray-500" />
				<div class="h-2 w-2 rounded-full bg-gray-500" />
				<div class="h-2 w-2 rounded-full bg-gray-500" />
			</div>
		)
	}
	<slot />
	{
		tabs.length ? (
			tabs.map(async (_, idx) => (
				<button
					class={cn(
						`copy copy-${idx + 1} inline-block rounded-md bg-neutral-600`,
						"px-2 py-1 text-sm text-neutral-100 max-sm:hidden",
						"group-[.tabbed]:hidden"
					)}
					data-idx={idx + 1}
					type="button"
				>
					Copy
				</button>
			))
		) : (
			<button class="copy inline-block rounded-md bg-neutral-600 px-2 py-1 text-sm text-neutral-100 max-sm:hidden" type="button">
				Copy
			</button>
		)
	}
</nav>
```
</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="tab-3">frame.astro</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-3">
```astro
---
import { cn } from "$/util";
export interface Props extends astroHTML.JSX.HTMLAttributes {}
---

<div class={cn("max-h-[20rem] overflow-y-auto md:max-h-[40rem]", Astro.props.class)}>
	<slot />
</div>
```
</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="tab-4">lang.astro</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-4">
```astro
---
import { cn } from "$/util";
export interface Props extends astroHTML.JSX.HTMLAttributes {}
---

<span
	class={cn(
		"absolute right-0 top-[calc(2.75rem+1px)] z-10 inline-block",
		"bg-neutral-900 px-2 py-1 text-xs uppercase text-neutral-content",
		Astro.props.class
	)}
>
	<slot />
</span>
```
</Fragment>
</TabbedCode>

## `.code-block` Component Class

The following SCSS mixin is used to style the `.code-block` component class. The mixin includes styles for the tab and the Shiki transformer styles. For more information about Shiki transformer styles, see the [Shiki documentation](https://shiki.style/packages/transformers).

<TabbedCode>
<Fragment slot="tab-1">mixins.scss</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-1">
```scss
@mixin code() {
	.code-block {
		nav label {
			max-width: calc(100vw - 160px);
			height: theme("space.11");
			white-space: nowrap;
			padding: 11px theme("space.3");
			font-size: theme("fontSize.sm");
			border-width: 2px 1px 0;
			border-style: solid;
			border-color: theme("borderColor.neutral-900");
			border-top-color: theme("borderColor.neutral-600");
			background-color: theme("backgroundColor.neutral-900");
			input[type="radio"] {
				display: none;
			}
			&:has(input[type="radio"]) {
				cursor: pointer;
				opacity: 0.5;
				&:has(:checked) {
					opacity: 1;
					border-top-color: theme("borderColor.primary");
					border-inline-color: theme("borderColor.neutral-700 / 50%");
				}
			}
			&:not(:has(input[type="radio"])) {
				border-top-color: theme("borderColor.primary");
				border-inline-color: theme("borderColor.neutral-700 / 50%");
				&::before {
					content: var(--filename);
					display: block;
					overflow: hidden;
					text-overflow: ellipsis;
				}
			}
		}
		pre {
			position: relative;
			tab-size: 2;
			code {
				&:has(.line.diff) {
					.line:not(.diff) {
						padding-left: theme("space.4");
					}
				}
				&:has(.line.focused) {
					.line:not(.focused) {
						opacity: 0.5;
						filter: blur(0.095rem);
					}
				}
				.line {
					display: inline-block;
					width: theme("width.full");
					line-height: 1.5;
					&:empty {
						display: none;
					}
					&.highlighted {
						background-color: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.1);
						&.error {
							background-color: rgba(244, 63, 94, 0.16);
						}
					}
					&.diff {
						&::before {
							display: inline-block;
							width: theme("width.4");
							text-align: center;
						}
						&.add {
							background-color: rgba(159, 122, 234, 0.16);
							&:before {
								content: "+";
								color: green;
							}
						}
						&.remove {
							background-color: rgba(244, 63, 94, 0.16);
							&:before {
								content: "-";
								color: red;
							}
						}
					}
					.highlighted-word {
						background-color: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.1);
						border: 1px solid rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.2);
						padding: 1px 3px;
						margin: -1px -3px;
						border-radius: 4px;
					}
					&.error .highlighted-word {
						background-color: transparent;
						border: 0;
						margin: 0;
						padding: 0;
						border-radius: 0;
						text-decoration: underline;
						text-decoration-style: wavy;
						text-decoration-color: rgb(205, 0, 0);
						@supports (color: color-mix(in srgb, red 80%, black)) {
							text-decoration-color: color-mix(in srgb, red 80%, black);
						}
					}
				}
			}
		}
	}
}
```
</Fragment>
</TabbedCode>

## The Component

The `code.astro` and  `pre.astro` components are also subcomponents of the `tabbed.astro` component. However, they can also be used used as the default components for rendering markdown code blocks wrapped with single or triple backticks. For more information about assigning custom components to HTML elements in `.mdx` files, see the [Astro documentation](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/markdown-content/#assigning-custom-components-to-html-elements).

The `tabbed.astro` compoennt is the main component that creates the tabbed code block. The component includes the `CodeBlock`, `CodeNav`, `CodeLang`, and `CodeFrame` components.

<TabbedCode>
<Fragment slot="tab-1">pre.astro</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-1">
```astro
---
import { cn } from "$/util";
import CodeBlock from "./block/block.astro";
import CodeFrame from "./block/frame.astro";
import CodeLang from "./block/lang.astro";
import CodeNav from "./block/nav.astro";
---

<CodeBlock class="group-[.tabbed]:m-0 group-[.tabbed]:border-0">
	<CodeNav class="group-[.tabbed]:hidden" />
	<CodeLang class="group-[.tabbed]:top-0">
		{Astro.props.lang}
	</CodeLang>
	<CodeFrame class="group-[.tabbed]:max-h-none">
		<pre class={cn(Astro.props.class, "group my-1")}><slot /></pre>
	</CodeFrame>
</CodeBlock>
```
</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="tab-2">code.astro</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-2">
```astro
---
import { cn } from "$/util";
---

<code
	class={cn(
		Astro.props.class,
		"group-[.astro-code]:bg-transparent group-[.astro-code]:text-xs rounded-sm bg-white/20 text-base-content",
		"[#table-of-contents+ul_&]:bg-transparent [#table-of-contents+ul_&]:font-montserrat",
		"[:is(h1,h2,h3,h4)>&]:bg-transparent [:is(h1,h2,h3,h4)>&]:font-robo-flex"
	)}><slot /></code>

```
</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="tab-3">tabbed.astro</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-3">
```astro
---
import { cn } from "$/util";
import CodeBlock from "./block/block.astro";
import CodeFrame from "./block/frame.astro";
import CodeNav from "./block/nav.astro";

const uuid = crypto.randomUUID();
const tabs: string[] = [];
const panels: string[] = [];

let index = 0;
const classes: string[] = [];
Object.entries(Astro.slots).forEach(([name]) => {
	if (name.startsWith("tab")) {
		index += 1;
		tabs.push(name);
		classes.push(`.tabbed:has(.radio-${index}:checked) .panel-${index}`);
		classes.push(`.tabbed:has(.radio-${index}:checked) .copy-${index}`);
	} else if (name.startsWith("panel")) {
		panels.push(name);
	}
});

const inlineStyles = classes.join(", ") + " { visibility: visible; display: inline-block !important; }";
---

<CodeBlock class="tabbed">
	{tabs.length > 0 && <style set:html={inlineStyles} />}
	<CodeNav {tabs}>
		<div class="flex flex-1 overflow-x-auto">
			{
				tabs.map(async (name, idx) => {
					const index = idx + 1;
					const render = await Astro.slots.render(name);
					return (
						<label>
							<input class={`radio-${index}`} type="radio" name={uuid} checked={index === 1 ? "" : undefined} />
							<Fragment set:html={render} />
						</label>
					);
				})
			}
		</div>
	</CodeNav>
	<CodeFrame>
		{
			panels.length ? (
				panels.map(async (name, index) => (
					<div
						class={cn(`panel-${index + 1}`, "m-0 hidden w-full rounded bg-neutral-900 text-sm text-neutral-content")}
						set:html={await Astro.slots.render(name)}
					/>
				))
			) : (
				<div class="panel-0 m-0 w-full rounded bg-neutral-900 text-sm text-neutral-content">
					<slot />
				</div>
			)
		}
	</CodeFrame>
</CodeBlock>
```
</Fragment>
</TabbedCode>

### Example

The `tabbed.astro` component is used to wrap markdown codeblocks triple backticks like the following example. Without the `tabbed.astro` component, the code block would still be rendered thanks to `pre.astro` and `code.astro` components, but without tabs.

For more examples, you can look at the [source code](https://github.com/sillvva/matt-astro/blob/main/src/content/blog/astro-tabbed-code-block.mdx?plain=1) for this page.

```mdx
import TabbedCode from "$/components/markdown/code/tabbed.astro";

<TabbedCode>
<Fragment slot="tab-1">mixins.scss</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-1">
``‍`scss
@mixin code() {
	.code-block {
		nav label {
			max-width: calc(100vw - 160px);
			height: theme("space.11");
			white-space: nowrap;
			padding: 11px theme("space.3");
			font-size: theme("fontSize.sm");
			border-width: 2px 1px 0;
			border-style: solid;
			border-color: theme("borderColor.neutral-900");
			border-top-color: theme("borderColor.neutral-600");
			background-color: theme("backgroundColor.neutral-900");
			input[type="radio"] {
				display: none;
			}
			&:has(input[type="radio"]) {
				cursor: pointer;
				opacity: 0.5;
				&:has(:checked) {
					opacity: 1;
					border-top-color: theme("borderColor.primary");
					border-inline-color: theme("borderColor.neutral-700 / 50%");
				}
			}
			&:not(:has(input[type="radio"])) {
				border-top-color: theme("borderColor.primary");
				border-inline-color: theme("borderColor.neutral-700 / 50%");
				&::before {
					content: var(--filename);
					display: block;
					overflow: hidden;
					text-overflow: ellipsis;
				}
			}
		}
		pre {
			position: relative;
			tab-size: 2;
			code {
				&:has(.line.diff) {
					.line:not(.diff) {
						padding-left: theme("space.4");
					}
				}
				&:has(.line.focused) {
					.line:not(.focused) {
						opacity: 0.5;
						filter: blur(0.095rem);
					}
				}
				.line {
					display: inline-block;
					width: theme("width.full");
					line-height: 1.5;
					&:empty {
						display: none;
					}
					&.highlighted {
						background-color: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.1);
						&.error {
							background-color: rgba(244, 63, 94, 0.16);
						}
					}
					&.diff {
						&::before {
							display: inline-block;
							width: theme("width.4");
							text-align: center;
						}
						&.add {
							background-color: rgba(159, 122, 234, 0.16);
							&:before {
								content: "+";
								color: green;
							}
						}
						&.remove {
							background-color: rgba(244, 63, 94, 0.16);
							&:before {
								content: "-";
								color: red;
							}
						}
					}
					.highlighted-word {
						background-color: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.1);
						border: 1px solid rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.2);
						padding: 1px 3px;
						margin: -1px -3px;
						border-radius: 4px;
					}
					&.error .highlighted-word {
						background-color: transparent;
						border: 0;
						margin: 0;
						padding: 0;
						border-radius: 0;
						text-decoration: underline;
						text-decoration-style: wavy;
						text-decoration-color: rgb(205, 0, 0);
						@supports (color: color-mix(in srgb, red 80%, black)) {
							text-decoration-color: color-mix(in srgb, red 80%, black);
						}
					}
				}
			}
		}
	}
}
``‍`
</Fragment>
</TabbedCode>
```
