src/content/blog/sveltekit-remote-functions.mdx, before:

---
title: SvelteKit Remote Functions Tips and Techniques
description: A guide to techniques for using remote functions in SvelteKit
date: 2025-11-10T18:16:32.502Z
updated: 2025-11-12T15:40:45.677Z
image: $/assets/images/svelte.webp
tags:
  - SvelteKit
  - TypeScript
  - Forms
---
import TabbedCode from "$/components/markdown/code/tabbed.astro";

## Table of Contents

## Introduction

This post covers practical tips for using remote queries, commands, and forms in SvelteKit.

## Forms

### Remote Forms vs Superforms

Superforms is a great library for handling forms in SvelteKit. It can do things that remote forms can't. When using Superforms's `json` mode, it converts the form data into a JSON object that is serialized with the `devalue` library and sent to the server. Unlike `FormData`, which only supports `string | Blob` values, the JSON object can contain any type of value supported by transport hooks.

Superforms also uses JSONSchema adapters to obtain runtime information about your schema. This allows it to provide validation attributes like `required`, `min`, `max`, `minlength`, `maxlength`, and `pattern`. It also allows it to know when a field should be coerced to other types like `null`, `boolean`, `number`, `Date`, etc.

Remote forms, on the other hand, are a bit more limited. They only send `FormData` to the server. Aside from number and boolean checkbox inputs, remote forms does not handle any coercion of values. That is why your schema must only include the following input types: `string`, `string[]`, `number`, `boolean`, `File`, and `File[]`. Coercion to other output types must be handled by your schema. `undefined` is also supported as an input type, because some fields may be excluded from the `FormData` such as boolean checkbox or fields that are conditionally rendered in the UI.

Superforms also uses `StandardSchemaV1`, which is just types. It does not provide any runtime information about your schema. So it cannot automatically provide validation attributes.

### Dates

Dates are a bit tricky to handle. The reason SvelteKit doesn't automatically coerce date inputs to `Date` objects, is because the coercion is handled on the server, which could be in a different timezone than the client. This could cause issues with date parsing and validation.

A `date` input uses the format `YYYY-MM-DD` and the `datetime-local` input uses the format `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM`. Since this does not include the client's timezone information, the date should be converted to a UNIX timestamp in the client instead or the form should include the timezone as a hidden input. Otherwise, the conversion to `Date` on the server could be incorrect.

For that, this function could be useful:

<TabbedCode>
<Fragment slot="tab-1">form.svelte</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-1">
```svelte
<script lang="ts">
  import { testForm } from '$lib/remote/forms.remote.ts';
  import { appendTimezone } from '$lib/utils.ts'; // [!code focus]

  let date = $state(''); // [!code focus]
</script>

<form {...testForm}>
  <!-- The date input does not have a name. --> <!-- [!code focus] -->
  <!-- Only the hidden input is submitted to the server. --> <!-- [!code focus] -->
  <input type="date" bind:value={date} /> <!-- [!code focus] -->
  <input {...testForm.fields.date.as("hidden", appendTimezone(date))} /> <!-- [!code focus] -->

  <button type="submit">Submit</button>
</form>
```
</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="tab-2">utils.ts</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-2">
```ts
/**
 * Appends the local timezone offset to a date string
 * @param {string} dateString - Date string in format YYYY-MM-DD or YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm
 * @returns {string} Date string with timezone appended (e.g., "2024-03-15T10:30-05:00")
 */
export function appendTimezone(dateString: string): string {
  if (!dateString) return '';

  // Parse the input date string
  const date = new Date(dateString);
  
  // Check if date is valid
  if (isNaN(date.getTime())) {
    throw new Error('Invalid date string');
  }
  
  // Get timezone offset in minutes
  const offsetMinutes = date.getTimezoneOffset();
  
  // Convert to hours and minutes (offset is negative for timezones ahead of UTC)
  const offsetHours = Math.floor(Math.abs(offsetMinutes) / 60);
  const offsetMins = Math.abs(offsetMinutes) % 60;
  
  // Determine sign (getTimezoneOffset returns positive for zones behind UTC)
  const sign = offsetMinutes <= 0 ? '+' : '-';
  
  // Format timezone string (e.g., "+05:00" or "-08:00")
  const timezone = `${sign}${String(offsetHours).padStart(2, '0')}:${String(offsetMins).padStart(2, '0')}`;
  
  // Handle different input formats
  if (dateString.includes('T')) {
    // Already has time component
    return `${dateString}${timezone}`;
  } else {
    // Only has date, append midnight time
    return `${dateString}T00:00:00${timezone}`;
  }
}
```
</Fragment>
</TabbedCode>

### Discriminated Unions

Because the `fields` property of a form instance is a proxy object (with values returned as methods), you can't use discriminated unions in the usual way. You'll need to use type assertions to make them work properly.

<TabbedCode>
<Fragment slot="tab-1">forms.remote.ts</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-1">
```ts
import * as v from 'valibot';

export type TypeA = v.InferInput<typeof typeA>;
export const typeA = v.object({
  propA: v.string(),
});

export type TypeB = v.InferInput<typeof typeA>;
export const typeB = v.object({
  propB: v.number(),
});

export const schema = v.object({
  diff: v.variant('type', [
    v.object({
      type: v.literal('a'),
      ...typeA.entries,
    }),
    v.object({
      type: v.literal('b'),
      ...typeB.entries,
    }),
  ]),
});
```
</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="tab-2">template.svelte</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-2">
```svelte
{#if myForm.fields.diff.type.value() == "a"}
    {@const diff = myForm.fields.diff as RemoteFormFields<TypeA>}
    PropA: <input {...diff.propA.as("text")}>
{:else}
    {@const diff = myForm.fields.diff as RemoteFormFields<TypeB>}
    PropB: <input {...diff.propB.as("number")}>
{/if}
```
</Fragment>
</TabbedCode>

## Utilities

### Guarded Remote Functions

Guarded remote functions ensure that your remote functions are only called by authenticated users. Copy the following code into a new file called `$lib/server/remote.ts` and import the `guardedQuery()`, `guardedCommand()`, and `guardedForm()` functions into your remote functions code.

<TabbedCode>
<Fragment slot="tab-1">$lib/server/remote.ts</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-1">
```ts
import { command, form, getRequestEvent, query } from "$app/server";
import type { StandardSchemaV1 } from "@standard-schema/spec";
import {
	redirect,
	type Invalid,
	type RemoteCommand,
	type RemoteForm,
	type RemoteFormInput,
	type RemoteQueryFunction,
	type RequestEvent
} from "@sveltejs/kit";

const LOGINPAGE = "/";

function isStandardSchema(schema: unknown): schema is StandardSchemaV1 {
	return typeof schema === "object" && schema !== null && "~standard" in schema;
}

// -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
// guardedQuery: Remote Query with auth guard
// -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

export function guardedQuery<Schema extends StandardSchemaV1, Output>(
	schema: Schema,
	fn: (
		output: StandardSchemaV1.InferOutput<Schema>,
		auth: { user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>; event: RequestEvent }
	) => Promise<Output>
): RemoteQueryFunction<StandardSchemaV1.InferInput<Schema>, Promise<Output>>;

export function guardedQuery<Output>(
	fn: (auth: { user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>; event: RequestEvent }) => Promise<Output>
): RemoteQueryFunction<void, Promise<Output>>;

export function guardedQuery<Schema extends StandardSchemaV1, Output>(
	schemaOrFn: Schema | ((auth: { user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>; event: RequestEvent }) => Promise<Output>),
	maybeFn?: (
		output: StandardSchemaV1.InferOutput<Schema>,
		auth: { user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>; event: RequestEvent }
	) => Promise<Output>
) {
	// Handle the case with schema parameter (first overload)
	if (isStandardSchema(schemaOrFn) && typeof maybeFn === "function") {
		return query(schemaOrFn, (output) => {
			const event = getRequestEvent();
			if (!event.locals.user) redirect(302, LOGINPAGE);
			return maybeFn(output, { user: event.locals.user, event });
		});
	}

	// Handle the case where there's no schema parameter (second overload)
	if (typeof schemaOrFn === "function" && !maybeFn) {
		return query(() => {
			const event = getRequestEvent();
			if (!event.locals.user) redirect(302, LOGINPAGE);
			return schemaOrFn({ user: event.locals.user, event });
		});
	}

	throw new Error("Invalid arguments");
}

// -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
// guardedForm: Remote Form with auth guard
// -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

export function guardedForm<Schema extends StandardSchemaV1<RemoteFormInput, Record<string, unknown>>, Output>(
	schema: Schema,
	fn: (
		output: StandardSchemaV1.InferOutput<Schema>,
		auth: { user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>; event: RequestEvent; invalid: Invalid<StandardSchemaV1.InferInput<Schema>> }
	) => Promise<Output>
): RemoteForm<StandardSchemaV1.InferInput<Schema>, Output>;

export function guardedForm<Input extends RemoteFormInput, Output>(
	schema: "unchecked",
	fn: (
		output: Input,
		auth: { user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>; event: RequestEvent; invalid: Invalid<Input> }
	) => Promise<Output>
): RemoteForm<Input, Output>;

export function guardedForm<Output>(
	fn: (auth: { user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>; event: RequestEvent; invalid: Invalid<void> }) => Promise<Output>
): RemoteForm<void, Output>;

export function guardedForm<
	Schema extends StandardSchemaV1<RemoteFormInput, Record<string, unknown>>,
	Input extends RemoteFormInput,
	Output
>(
	schemaOrFn:
		| "unchecked"
		| Schema
		| ((auth: { user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>; event: RequestEvent; invalid: Invalid<void> }) => Promise<Output>),
	maybeFn?:
		| ((
				output: StandardSchemaV1.InferOutput<Schema>,
				auth: {
					user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>;
					event: RequestEvent;
					invalid: Invalid<StandardSchemaV1.InferInput<Schema>>;
				}
		  ) => Promise<Output>)
		| ((
				input: Input,
				auth: { user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>; event: RequestEvent; invalid: Invalid<Input> }
		  ) => Promise<Output>)
) {
	// Handle the case with schema parameter (first overload)
	if (isStandardSchema(schemaOrFn) && typeof maybeFn === "function") {
		const fn = maybeFn as (
			output: StandardSchemaV1.InferOutput<Schema>,
			auth: { user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>; event: RequestEvent; invalid: Invalid<StandardSchemaV1.InferInput<Schema>> }
		) => Promise<Output>;
		return form(schemaOrFn, async (output, invalid) => {
			const event = getRequestEvent();
			if (!event.locals.user) redirect(302, LOGINPAGE);
			return await fn(output, { invalid, user: event.locals.user, event });
		});
	}

	// Handle the case with unchecked schema parameter (second overload)
	if (typeof schemaOrFn === "string" && typeof maybeFn === "function") {
		const fn = maybeFn as (
			input: Input,
			auth: { user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>; event: RequestEvent; invalid: Invalid<Input> }
		) => Promise<Output>;
		return form(schemaOrFn, async (input: Input, invalid) => {
			const event = getRequestEvent();
			if (!event.locals.user) redirect(302, LOGINPAGE);
			return await fn(input, { invalid, user: event.locals.user, event });
		});
	}

	// Handle the case where there's no schema parameter (third overload)
	if (typeof schemaOrFn === "function" && !maybeFn) {
		return form(async (invalid) => {
			const event = getRequestEvent();
			if (!event.locals.user) redirect(302, LOGINPAGE);
			return await schemaOrFn({ invalid, user: event.locals.user, event });
		});
	}

	throw new Error("Invalid arguments");
}

// -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
// guardedCommand: Remote Command with auth guard
// -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

export function guardedCommand<Schema extends StandardSchemaV1, Output>(
	schema: Schema,
	fn: (
		output: StandardSchemaV1.InferOutput<Schema>,
		auth: { user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>; event: RequestEvent }
	) => Promise<Output>
): RemoteCommand<StandardSchemaV1.InferInput<Schema>, Promise<Output | { redirect: string }>>;

export function guardedCommand<Input, Output>(
	fn: (input: Input, auth: { user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>; event: RequestEvent }) => Promise<Output>
): RemoteCommand<Input, Promise<Output | { redirect: string }>>;

export function guardedCommand<Schema extends StandardSchemaV1, Input, Output>(
	schemaOrFn: Schema | ((input: Input, auth: { user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>; event: RequestEvent }) => Promise<Output>),
	maybeFn?: (
		output: StandardSchemaV1.InferOutput<Schema>,
		auth: { user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>; event: RequestEvent }
	) => Promise<Output>
) {
	// Handle the case with schema parameter (first overload)
	if (isStandardSchema(schemaOrFn) && typeof maybeFn === "function") {
		return command(schemaOrFn, async (output) => {
			const event = getRequestEvent();
			if (!event.locals.user) return { redirect: LOGINPAGE };
			return await maybeFn(output, { user: event.locals.user, event });
		});
	}

	// Handle the case where there's no schema parameter (second overload)
	if (typeof schemaOrFn === "function" && !maybeFn) {
		return command("unchecked", async (input: Input) => {
			const event = getRequestEvent();
			if (!event.locals.user) return { redirect: LOGINPAGE };
			return await schemaOrFn(input, { user: event.locals.user, event });
		});
	}

	throw new Error("Invalid arguments");
}
```
</Fragment>
</TabbedCode>

#### Lint Rule to Enforce Guarded Remote Functions

The lint rule to enforce guarded remote functions is a simple ESLint rule that checks that all exports in `.remote.ts` files use guardedQuery(), guardedCommand(), or guardedForm(). Direct exports of query(), command(), or form() are not allowed unless you explicitly opt out.

<TabbedCode>
<Fragment slot="tab-1">eslint.config.js</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-1">
```js
import js from "@eslint/js";
import eslintConfigPrettier from "eslint-config-prettier/flat";
import svelte from "eslint-plugin-svelte";
import globals from "globals";
import enforceGuardedExports from "./eslint/enforce-guarded-functions.js";// [!code ++]
import svelteConfig from "./svelte.config.js";

// Use the typescript-eslint aggregator for flat config presets
// (requires devDependency: "typescript-eslint")
import tseslint from "typescript-eslint";

export default [
  ... // existing rules
  
  // [!code ++:13]
	{
		files: ["**/*.remote.ts"],
		plugins: {
			custom: {
				rules: {
					"enforce-guarded-functions": enforceGuardedExports
				}
			}
		},
		rules: {
			"custom/enforce-guarded-functions": "error"
		}
	}
];
```
</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="tab-2">enforce-guarded-remote-functions.js</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-2">
```js
export default {
	meta: {
		type: "problem",
		docs: {
			description: "Enforce that exports in .remote.ts files use guardedQuery(), guardedCommand(), or guardedForm()",
			category: "Best Practices",
			recommended: true
		},
		messages: {
			unguardedExport:
				"Exports in .remote.ts files must use guardedQuery(), guardedCommand(), or guardedForm(). Direct exports of query(), command(), or form() are not allowed.",
			mustBeGuarded: 'Export "{{name}}" must be the return value of guardedQuery(), guardedCommand(), or guardedForm().'
		},
		schema: []
	},

	create(context) {
		const filename = context.getFilename();

		// Only apply this rule to files ending in .remote.ts
		if (!filename.endsWith(".remote.ts")) {
			return {};
		}

		const guardedFunctions = new Set(["guardedQuery", "guardedCommand", "guardedForm"]);
		const unguardedFunctions = new Set(["query", "command", "form"]);

		function isGuardedCall(node) {
			return node.type === "CallExpression" && node.callee.type === "Identifier" && guardedFunctions.has(node.callee.name);
		}

		function isUnguardedCall(node) {
			return node.callee.type === "Identifier" && unguardedFunctions.has(node.callee.name);
		}

		function checkExportDeclaration(node) {
			if (node.type === "ExportNamedDeclaration") {
				if (node.declaration && node.declaration.type === "VariableDeclaration") {
					for (const declarator of node.declaration.declarations) {
						if (declarator.init) {
							if (declarator.init.type === "CallExpression" && isUnguardedCall(declarator.init)) {
								context.report({
									node: declarator.init,
									messageId: "unguardedExport"
								});
							} else if (!isGuardedCall(declarator.init)) {
								context.report({
									node: declarator,
									messageId: "mustBeGuarded",
									data: {
										name: declarator.id.name
									}
								});
							}
						}
					}
				}
			}
		}

		return {
			ExportNamedDeclaration: checkExportDeclaration
		};
	}
};
```
</Fragment>
</TabbedCode>

Commit message:

docs: clarify remote forms handling in SvelteKit guide by explaining nullable fields and validation behavior

src/content/blog/sveltekit-remote-functions.mdx, after:

---
title: SvelteKit Remote Functions Tips and Techniques
description: A guide to techniques for using remote functions in SvelteKit
date: 2025-11-10T18:16:32.502Z
updated: 2025-11-12T15:40:45.677Z
image: $/assets/images/svelte.webp
tags:
  - SvelteKit
  - TypeScript
  - Forms
---
import TabbedCode from "$/components/markdown/code/tabbed.astro";

## Table of Contents

## Introduction

This post covers practical tips for using remote queries, commands, and forms in SvelteKit.

## Forms

### Remote Forms vs Superforms

Superforms is a great library for handling forms in SvelteKit. It can do things that remote forms can't. When using Superforms's `json` mode, it converts the form data into a JSON object that is serialized with the `devalue` library and sent to the server. Unlike `FormData`, which only supports `string | Blob` values, the JSON object can contain any type of value supported by transport hooks.

Superforms also uses JSONSchema adapters to obtain runtime information about your schema. This allows it to provide validation attributes like `required`, `min`, `max`, `minlength`, `maxlength`, and `pattern`. It also allows it to know when a field should be coerced to other types like `null`, `boolean`, `number`, `Date`, etc.

Remote forms, on the other hand, are a bit more limited. They only send `FormData` to the server. Aside from number and boolean checkbox inputs, remote forms does not handle any coercion of values. That is why your schema must only include the following input types: `string`, `string[]`, `number`, `boolean`, `File`, and `File[]`. Coercion to other output types must be handled by your schema. `undefined` is also supported as an input type, because some fields may be excluded from the `FormData` such as boolean checkbox or fields that are conditionally rendered in the UI.

Superforms also uses `StandardSchemaV1`, which is just types. It does not provide any runtime information about your schema. So it cannot automatically provide validation attributes. If you have a field that is nullable, remote forms won't know that until the validation actually runs. The value that the schema receives will always be one of the types mentioned in the previous paragraph.

### Dates

Dates are a bit tricky to handle. The reason SvelteKit doesn't automatically coerce date inputs to `Date` objects, is because the coercion is handled on the server, which could be in a different timezone than the client. This could cause issues with date parsing and validation.

A `date` input uses the format `YYYY-MM-DD` and the `datetime-local` input uses the format `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM`. Since this does not include the client's timezone information, the date should be converted to a UNIX timestamp in the client instead or the form should include the timezone as a hidden input. Otherwise, the conversion to `Date` on the server could be incorrect.

For that, this function could be useful:

<TabbedCode>
<Fragment slot="tab-1">form.svelte</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-1">
```svelte
<script lang="ts">
  import { testForm } from '$lib/remote/forms.remote.ts';
  import { appendTimezone } from '$lib/utils.ts'; // [!code focus]

  let date = $state(''); // [!code focus]
</script>

<form {...testForm}>
  <!-- The date input does not have a name. --> <!-- [!code focus] -->
  <!-- Only the hidden input is submitted to the server. --> <!-- [!code focus] -->
  <input type="date" bind:value={date} /> <!-- [!code focus] -->
  <input {...testForm.fields.date.as("hidden", appendTimezone(date))} /> <!-- [!code focus] -->

  <button type="submit">Submit</button>
</form>
```
</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="tab-2">utils.ts</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-2">
```ts
/**
 * Appends the local timezone offset to a date string
 * @param {string} dateString - Date string in format YYYY-MM-DD or YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm
 * @returns {string} Date string with timezone appended (e.g., "2024-03-15T10:30-05:00")
 */
export function appendTimezone(dateString: string): string {
  if (!dateString) return '';

  // Parse the input date string
  const date = new Date(dateString);
  
  // Check if date is valid
  if (isNaN(date.getTime())) {
    throw new Error('Invalid date string');
  }
  
  // Get timezone offset in minutes
  const offsetMinutes = date.getTimezoneOffset();
  
  // Convert to hours and minutes (offset is negative for timezones ahead of UTC)
  const offsetHours = Math.floor(Math.abs(offsetMinutes) / 60);
  const offsetMins = Math.abs(offsetMinutes) % 60;
  
  // Determine sign (getTimezoneOffset returns positive for zones behind UTC)
  const sign = offsetMinutes <= 0 ? '+' : '-';
  
  // Format timezone string (e.g., "+05:00" or "-08:00")
  const timezone = `${sign}${String(offsetHours).padStart(2, '0')}:${String(offsetMins).padStart(2, '0')}`;
  
  // Handle different input formats
  if (dateString.includes('T')) {
    // Already has time component
    return `${dateString}${timezone}`;
  } else {
    // Only has date, append midnight time
    return `${dateString}T00:00:00${timezone}`;
  }
}
```
</Fragment>
</TabbedCode>

### Discriminated Unions

Because the `fields` property of a form instance is a proxy object (with values returned as methods), you can't use discriminated unions in the usual way. You'll need to use type assertions to make them work properly.

<TabbedCode>
<Fragment slot="tab-1">forms.remote.ts</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-1">
```ts
import * as v from 'valibot';

export type TypeA = v.InferInput<typeof typeA>;
export const typeA = v.object({
  propA: v.string(),
});

export type TypeB = v.InferInput<typeof typeA>;
export const typeB = v.object({
  propB: v.number(),
});

export const schema = v.object({
  diff: v.variant('type', [
    v.object({
      type: v.literal('a'),
      ...typeA.entries,
    }),
    v.object({
      type: v.literal('b'),
      ...typeB.entries,
    }),
  ]),
});
```
</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="tab-2">template.svelte</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-2">
```svelte
{#if myForm.fields.diff.type.value() == "a"}
    {@const diff = myForm.fields.diff as RemoteFormFields<TypeA>}
    PropA: <input {...diff.propA.as("text")}>
{:else}
    {@const diff = myForm.fields.diff as RemoteFormFields<TypeB>}
    PropB: <input {...diff.propB.as("number")}>
{/if}
```
</Fragment>
</TabbedCode>

## Utilities

### Guarded Remote Functions

Guarded remote functions ensure that your remote functions are only called by authenticated users. Copy the following code into a new file called `$lib/server/remote.ts` and import the `guardedQuery()`, `guardedCommand()`, and `guardedForm()` functions into your remote functions code.

<TabbedCode>
<Fragment slot="tab-1">$lib/server/remote.ts</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-1">
```ts
import { command, form, getRequestEvent, query } from "$app/server";
import type { StandardSchemaV1 } from "@standard-schema/spec";
import {
	redirect,
	type Invalid,
	type RemoteCommand,
	type RemoteForm,
	type RemoteFormInput,
	type RemoteQueryFunction,
	type RequestEvent
} from "@sveltejs/kit";

const LOGINPAGE = "/";

function isStandardSchema(schema: unknown): schema is StandardSchemaV1 {
	return typeof schema === "object" && schema !== null && "~standard" in schema;
}

// -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
// guardedQuery: Remote Query with auth guard
// -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

export function guardedQuery<Schema extends StandardSchemaV1, Output>(
	schema: Schema,
	fn: (
		output: StandardSchemaV1.InferOutput<Schema>,
		auth: { user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>; event: RequestEvent }
	) => Promise<Output>
): RemoteQueryFunction<StandardSchemaV1.InferInput<Schema>, Promise<Output>>;

export function guardedQuery<Output>(
	fn: (auth: { user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>; event: RequestEvent }) => Promise<Output>
): RemoteQueryFunction<void, Promise<Output>>;

export function guardedQuery<Schema extends StandardSchemaV1, Output>(
	schemaOrFn: Schema | ((auth: { user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>; event: RequestEvent }) => Promise<Output>),
	maybeFn?: (
		output: StandardSchemaV1.InferOutput<Schema>,
		auth: { user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>; event: RequestEvent }
	) => Promise<Output>
) {
	// Handle the case with schema parameter (first overload)
	if (isStandardSchema(schemaOrFn) && typeof maybeFn === "function") {
		return query(schemaOrFn, (output) => {
			const event = getRequestEvent();
			if (!event.locals.user) redirect(302, LOGINPAGE);
			return maybeFn(output, { user: event.locals.user, event });
		});
	}

	// Handle the case where there's no schema parameter (second overload)
	if (typeof schemaOrFn === "function" && !maybeFn) {
		return query(() => {
			const event = getRequestEvent();
			if (!event.locals.user) redirect(302, LOGINPAGE);
			return schemaOrFn({ user: event.locals.user, event });
		});
	}

	throw new Error("Invalid arguments");
}

// -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
// guardedForm: Remote Form with auth guard
// -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

export function guardedForm<Schema extends StandardSchemaV1<RemoteFormInput, Record<string, unknown>>, Output>(
	schema: Schema,
	fn: (
		output: StandardSchemaV1.InferOutput<Schema>,
		auth: { user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>; event: RequestEvent; invalid: Invalid<StandardSchemaV1.InferInput<Schema>> }
	) => Promise<Output>
): RemoteForm<StandardSchemaV1.InferInput<Schema>, Output>;

export function guardedForm<Input extends RemoteFormInput, Output>(
	schema: "unchecked",
	fn: (
		output: Input,
		auth: { user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>; event: RequestEvent; invalid: Invalid<Input> }
	) => Promise<Output>
): RemoteForm<Input, Output>;

export function guardedForm<Output>(
	fn: (auth: { user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>; event: RequestEvent; invalid: Invalid<void> }) => Promise<Output>
): RemoteForm<void, Output>;

export function guardedForm<
	Schema extends StandardSchemaV1<RemoteFormInput, Record<string, unknown>>,
	Input extends RemoteFormInput,
	Output
>(
	schemaOrFn:
		| "unchecked"
		| Schema
		| ((auth: { user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>; event: RequestEvent; invalid: Invalid<void> }) => Promise<Output>),
	maybeFn?:
		| ((
				output: StandardSchemaV1.InferOutput<Schema>,
				auth: {
					user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>;
					event: RequestEvent;
					invalid: Invalid<StandardSchemaV1.InferInput<Schema>>;
				}
		  ) => Promise<Output>)
		| ((
				input: Input,
				auth: { user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>; event: RequestEvent; invalid: Invalid<Input> }
		  ) => Promise<Output>)
) {
	// Handle the case with schema parameter (first overload)
	if (isStandardSchema(schemaOrFn) && typeof maybeFn === "function") {
		const fn = maybeFn as (
			output: StandardSchemaV1.InferOutput<Schema>,
			auth: { user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>; event: RequestEvent; invalid: Invalid<StandardSchemaV1.InferInput<Schema>> }
		) => Promise<Output>;
		return form(schemaOrFn, async (output, invalid) => {
			const event = getRequestEvent();
			if (!event.locals.user) redirect(302, LOGINPAGE);
			return await fn(output, { invalid, user: event.locals.user, event });
		});
	}

	// Handle the case with unchecked schema parameter (second overload)
	if (typeof schemaOrFn === "string" && typeof maybeFn === "function") {
		const fn = maybeFn as (
			input: Input,
			auth: { user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>; event: RequestEvent; invalid: Invalid<Input> }
		) => Promise<Output>;
		return form(schemaOrFn, async (input: Input, invalid) => {
			const event = getRequestEvent();
			if (!event.locals.user) redirect(302, LOGINPAGE);
			return await fn(input, { invalid, user: event.locals.user, event });
		});
	}

	// Handle the case where there's no schema parameter (third overload)
	if (typeof schemaOrFn === "function" && !maybeFn) {
		return form(async (invalid) => {
			const event = getRequestEvent();
			if (!event.locals.user) redirect(302, LOGINPAGE);
			return await schemaOrFn({ invalid, user: event.locals.user, event });
		});
	}

	throw new Error("Invalid arguments");
}

// -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
// guardedCommand: Remote Command with auth guard
// -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

export function guardedCommand<Schema extends StandardSchemaV1, Output>(
	schema: Schema,
	fn: (
		output: StandardSchemaV1.InferOutput<Schema>,
		auth: { user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>; event: RequestEvent }
	) => Promise<Output>
): RemoteCommand<StandardSchemaV1.InferInput<Schema>, Promise<Output | { redirect: string }>>;

export function guardedCommand<Input, Output>(
	fn: (input: Input, auth: { user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>; event: RequestEvent }) => Promise<Output>
): RemoteCommand<Input, Promise<Output | { redirect: string }>>;

export function guardedCommand<Schema extends StandardSchemaV1, Input, Output>(
	schemaOrFn: Schema | ((input: Input, auth: { user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>; event: RequestEvent }) => Promise<Output>),
	maybeFn?: (
		output: StandardSchemaV1.InferOutput<Schema>,
		auth: { user: NonNullable<App.Locals["user"]>; event: RequestEvent }
	) => Promise<Output>
) {
	// Handle the case with schema parameter (first overload)
	if (isStandardSchema(schemaOrFn) && typeof maybeFn === "function") {
		return command(schemaOrFn, async (output) => {
			const event = getRequestEvent();
			if (!event.locals.user) return { redirect: LOGINPAGE };
			return await maybeFn(output, { user: event.locals.user, event });
		});
	}

	// Handle the case where there's no schema parameter (second overload)
	if (typeof schemaOrFn === "function" && !maybeFn) {
		return command("unchecked", async (input: Input) => {
			const event = getRequestEvent();
			if (!event.locals.user) return { redirect: LOGINPAGE };
			return await schemaOrFn(input, { user: event.locals.user, event });
		});
	}

	throw new Error("Invalid arguments");
}
```
</Fragment>
</TabbedCode>

#### Lint Rule to Enforce Guarded Remote Functions

The lint rule to enforce guarded remote functions is a simple ESLint rule that checks that all exports in `.remote.ts` files use guardedQuery(), guardedCommand(), or guardedForm(). Direct exports of query(), command(), or form() are not allowed unless you explicitly opt out.

<TabbedCode>
<Fragment slot="tab-1">eslint.config.js</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-1">
```js
import js from "@eslint/js";
import eslintConfigPrettier from "eslint-config-prettier/flat";
import svelte from "eslint-plugin-svelte";
import globals from "globals";
import enforceGuardedExports from "./eslint/enforce-guarded-functions.js";// [!code ++]
import svelteConfig from "./svelte.config.js";

// Use the typescript-eslint aggregator for flat config presets
// (requires devDependency: "typescript-eslint")
import tseslint from "typescript-eslint";

export default [
  ... // existing rules
  
  // [!code ++:13]
	{
		files: ["**/*.remote.ts"],
		plugins: {
			custom: {
				rules: {
					"enforce-guarded-functions": enforceGuardedExports
				}
			}
		},
		rules: {
			"custom/enforce-guarded-functions": "error"
		}
	}
];
```
</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="tab-2">enforce-guarded-remote-functions.js</Fragment>
<Fragment slot="panel-2">
```js
export default {
	meta: {
		type: "problem",
		docs: {
			description: "Enforce that exports in .remote.ts files use guardedQuery(), guardedCommand(), or guardedForm()",
			category: "Best Practices",
			recommended: true
		},
		messages: {
			unguardedExport:
				"Exports in .remote.ts files must use guardedQuery(), guardedCommand(), or guardedForm(). Direct exports of query(), command(), or form() are not allowed.",
			mustBeGuarded: 'Export "{{name}}" must be the return value of guardedQuery(), guardedCommand(), or guardedForm().'
		},
		schema: []
	},

	create(context) {
		const filename = context.getFilename();

		// Only apply this rule to files ending in .remote.ts
		if (!filename.endsWith(".remote.ts")) {
			return {};
		}

		const guardedFunctions = new Set(["guardedQuery", "guardedCommand", "guardedForm"]);
		const unguardedFunctions = new Set(["query", "command", "form"]);

		function isGuardedCall(node) {
			return node.type === "CallExpression" && node.callee.type === "Identifier" && guardedFunctions.has(node.callee.name);
		}

		function isUnguardedCall(node) {
			return node.callee.type === "Identifier" && unguardedFunctions.has(node.callee.name);
		}

		function checkExportDeclaration(node) {
			if (node.type === "ExportNamedDeclaration") {
				if (node.declaration && node.declaration.type === "VariableDeclaration") {
					for (const declarator of node.declaration.declarations) {
						if (declarator.init) {
							if (declarator.init.type === "CallExpression" && isUnguardedCall(declarator.init)) {
								context.report({
									node: declarator.init,
									messageId: "unguardedExport"
								});
							} else if (!isGuardedCall(declarator.init)) {
								context.report({
									node: declarator,
									messageId: "mustBeGuarded",
									data: {
										name: declarator.id.name
									}
								});
							}
						}
					}
				}
			}
		}

		return {
			ExportNamedDeclaration: checkExportDeclaration
		};
	}
};
```
</Fragment>
</TabbedCode>
