src/content/blog/useful-typescript-functions.mdx, before:

---
title: Useful TypeScript Code
description: Useful functions and types for TypeScript
date: 2023-09-07T03:18:13.471Z
image: $/assets/images/typescript.png
tags:
  - TypeScript
---

## Table of Contents

## Set Nested Value

Below is a `setValue` function which takes an object, a path, and a value. The path is a string of dot-separated keys. The function should set the value at the given path. The path parameter will have autocomplete and the value parameter will be required to be of the same type as the property at that path. See the playground for examples.

The [SchemaForm](/blog/sveltekit-schemaform) component for SvelteKit is also using a modified version of this function.

[[Playground](https://www.typescriptlang.org/play?ts=4.2.3#code/C4TwDgpgBAkgJgDwDwBUA0UDSA+KBeLKCBYCAOzgGcoBrCEAewDMoUoB+VgbUwF0oAXAFgAUFChkArgFsARhABOREuSq16zVh0LFSFagAMAJAG8pcxQF8D2lF3PyF-ARIgA3RYNceFo0aEgoACkGAEsyJEwMAAVcAkxlPTVKYAVwgHMoAB8JGUcOUXFoxNVqFLSyTJyHT3ZCqGMTTEtTACJWkv0oYs52r1aAOlaWk2jrepcyd09J6YUAbj8RAOhohXd8KHs5jAAGDABGDAAmDABmDAAWDABWDAA2DAB2DAAODABOQ-36g6OoA6nAEXAHXAF3AGPAEvAHvAFfKDHfZQAao3ZcXi8JYrboAQ2AAAtKKgMAARTpqGpKAgHXZxLak-i6UpbKY+ficNkzLTMroMWQAKwgAGNgAUxFATFsEuF1IwWCheABadguBK85KpDLZXIWJR1CXiRrNGw5ELhSIxfFE1A8XgxdZuLiM7DYeriWY+eqWLh0eWsZxQdpLAD0IaVEcjUejUei1qgblxABtJNAcUqoClcQpgDG8-mC4Wi8XC9jwKtrQA1ZOpkndCnUOOE4noKCXV2bYoawymcJMTyYeiWAa9sj9pQAJQgKXGEs4U5SDbxzaQ8GQrcHIGwVzdc+XBOrKYgq8Qdc326gC+Au493kUE1gp9bsVD4ZL0abBITNbT5agGdUf932AkDQNLERRCYSQyFFUIGDITMIGAQ9a3qNhu0lLY-RccoMl4FxcTIEAoEsNB6i7FQuk-Fsd1EbAAAp+QFFxWzAa0XGiDBEyPDiqx-OtYgASklepQhYeiVk0NjCXwPACFaXDKlaYSTHdKBhXgxcwAAGVCRcCGkgkBkoMAk1CYB6MGZTFkNdTNLFJNcRSTdNh0vTgAGMAGDAejBJs8RxA0sgtLCMhSGpKA3JSAZ1jgSRhQgei1PEejcWFYUZEkRzgAYBQXClLgEBwrVKnwqBCOI0j1MkBR1jClCIGKioql1RxhLwXBVNsgKoDEqBUvSzLstyrgMtq8hkJ-fg5IIaC4AgJhwggOBBOSnrysG6QsvxEaxrqyaj2myVLH89bxHWYAaoQtKMq24aFFGmr9oa3hTp60i1qYtS-LUvqJPLTRHOc+goAAQjkoM5oWpa4GUkTusi0Lwq4IHgE3I7uNTN6Aouq6oCY7HLG9epcYUBCCdEImIJEcJwqYNLoAAIQYfFSSQ3FQiTaguvEWQWeASh8rUvn8QOJqMmxkXgGOSY8kUU6TvqSgCVCMBBagABBWrcRAJAAGUVbAXcqdpxR6YSqADdV+HxGV1WADlcWkRrMxK9JKdEILFyltngA5rmXGZ1n2c56gCB5qApfViPef5sWg0cuBiNkI9WjI2ypZlgF0-ED6JTttWXC4NSpQLx3nZcVpHOFBQGEoCAOip8QsRERWRC9sVJDAOB8WWq3C8tw2MU2LgI7Lp2XdaP2woUGRWkpluwzApU9fihLKEoKCkyTYjcRTtMGEQsVCWgTHf0CJhcqgE-I4gJMGAAd0i61DCjgYpYOAwMAMAvKAMZeAF5lEPXA6qYkoSh9iHLmOcGhvw-l-eoU80iEXSEmBuogfoiBAQ1cBsdg5+1DjAhShtKADF2GneoXce6kDgP3SgXBdgt0wTiIOwBqKdhfkgVhvt-aUF3GGa+f5WHsPklHDoORiGq0oOIoMcC44yNaHI-ExwZE-xISOMwcsFDWB1GoqRGiqTDnHs7Aw-ghH82og1DhhIGpcP5jwwhUBhEv34SGcQLCLEvysQQRSLUqQ6i6gInqH9xaVBskEgKmdZZ6nCW4ywOp+4YlfMWRmABRbSAB5AA6rAPWrAAASqTcl6wAKpFMARUypVTqkRiWNgn8uDI72KgZQGBei1ZkOMobcuEAEESinuZQioRhTzxEH5KAAiGA0B1qIEMAAqKAUEYLADgghepR47H4N4RgSRHTdhdIdhPVoDFkpMUDs0gh0Dn6Ekrr-TpxiG5cR-KE92YzzlbNDlAOZIYliiCAA)] [[Source](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67607069/typescript-set-value-type-of-a-deep-nested-object-path)]

```typescript
type Idx<T, K> = K extends keyof T ? T[K] :
  number extends keyof T ? K extends `${number}` ? T[number] : never : never

type Join<K, P> = K extends string | number ?
  P extends string | number ?
  `${K}${"" extends P ? "" : "."}${P}`
  : never : never;

type Prev = [never, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
  11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, ...0[]]

type Paths<T, D extends number = 10> = [D] extends [never] ? never : T extends object ?
  { [K in keyof T]-?: K extends string | number ?
    `${K}` | Join<K, Paths<T[K], Prev[D]>>
    : never
  }[keyof T] : ""

type PathValue<T, P extends Paths<T, 4>> = P extends `${infer Key}.${infer Rest}`
  ? Rest extends Paths<Idx<T, Key>, 4>
  ? PathValue<Idx<T, Key>, Rest>
  : never
  : Idx<T, P>

function setValue<
  T extends { [key: string]: any },
  P extends Paths<T, 4>
>(obj: T, path: P, value: PathValue<T, P>) {
  if (typeof path === "string") {
    const pList = path.split(".");
    const lastKey = pList.pop();
    const pointer = pList.reduce(
      (accumulator: { [x: string]: any }, currentValue: string | number) => {
        if (accumulator[currentValue] === undefined)
          accumulator[currentValue] = {};
        return accumulator[currentValue];
      },
      obj
    );
    if (typeof lastKey !== "undefined") {
      pointer[lastKey] = value;
      return obj;
    }
  }
  return obj;
}
```

Commit message:

Compare setValue to lodash.set

src/content/blog/useful-typescript-functions.mdx, after:

---
title: Useful TypeScript Code
description: Useful functions and types for TypeScript
date: 2023-09-07T03:18:13.471Z
image: $/assets/images/typescript.png
tags:
  - TypeScript
---

## Table of Contents

## Set Nested Value

Below is a `setValue` function which takes an object, a path, and a value. The path is a string of dot-separated keys. The function should set the value at the given path. The path parameter will have autocomplete and the value parameter will be required to be of the same type as the property at that path. See the playground for examples. This function works very similarly to [lodash.set](https://lodash.com/docs/4.17.15#set), but with stronger type safety.

The [SchemaForm](/blog/sveltekit-schemaform) component for SvelteKit is also using a modified version of this function.

[[Playground](https://www.typescriptlang.org/play?ts=4.2.3#code/C4TwDgpgBAkgJgDwDwBUA0UDSA+KBeLKCBYCAOzgGcoBrCEAewDMoUoB+VgbUwF0oAXAFgAUFChkArgFsARhABOREuSq16zVh0LFSFagAMAJAG8pcxQF8D2lF3PyF-ARIgA3RYNceFo0aEgoACkGAEsyJEwMAAVcAkxlPTVKYAVwgHMoAB8JGUcOUXFoxNVqFLSyTJyHT3ZCqGMTTEtTACJWkv0oYs52r1aAOlaWk2jrepcyd09J6YUAbj8RAOhohXd8KHs5jAAGDABGDAAmDABmDAAWDABWDAA2DAB2DAAODABOQ-36g6OoA6nAEXAHXAF3AGPAEvAHvAFfKDHfZQAao3ZcXi8JYrboAQ2AAAtKKgMAARTpqGpKAgHXZxLak-i6UpbKY+ficNkzLTMroMWQAKwgAGNgAUxFATFsEuF1IwWCheABadguBK85KpDLZXIWJR1CXiRrNGw5ELhSIxfFE1A8XgxdZuLiM7DYeriWY+eqWLh0eWsZxQdpLAD0IaVEcjUejUei1qgblxABtJNAcUqoClcQpgDG8-mC4Wi8XC9jwKtrQA1ZOpkndCnUOOE4noKCXV2bYoawymcJMTyYeiWAa9sj9pQAJQgKXGEs4U5SDbxzaQ8GQrcHIGwVzdc+XBOrKYgq8Qdc326gC+Au493kUE1gp9bsVD4ZL0abBITNbT5agGdUf932AkDQNLERRCYSQyFFUIGDITMIGAQ9a3qNhu0lLY-RccoMl4FxcTIEAoEsNB6i7FQuk-Fsd1EbAAAp+QFFxWzAa0XGiDBEyPDiqx-OtYgASklepQhYeiVk0NjCXwPACFaXDKlaYSTHdKBhXgxcwAAGVCRcCGkgkBkoMAk1CYB6MGZTFkNdTNLFJNcRSTdNh0vTgAGMAGDAejBJs8RxA0sgtLCMhSGpKA3JSAZ1jgSRhQgei1PEejcWFYUZEkRzgAYBQXClLgEBwrVKnwqBCOI0j1MkBR1jClCIGKioql1RxhLwXBVNsgKoDEqBUvSzLstyrgMtq8hkJ-fg5IIaC4AgJhwggOBBOSnrysG6QsvxEaxrqyaj2myVLH89bxHWYAaoQtKMq24aFFGmr9oa3hTp60i1qYtS-LUvqJPLTRHOc+goAAQjkoM5oWpa4GUkTusi0Lwq4IHgE3I7uNTN6Aouq6oCY7HLG9epcYUBCCdEImIJEcJwqYNLoAAIQYfFSSQ3FQiTaguvEWQWeASh8rUvn8QOJqMmxkXgGOSY8kUU6TvqSgCVCMBBagABBWrcRAJAAGUVbAXcqdpxR6YSqADdV+HxGV1WADlcWkRrMxK9JKdEILFyltngA5rmXGZ1n2c56gCB5qApfViPef5sWg0cuBiNkI9WjI2ypZlgF0-ED6JTttWXC4NSpQLx3nZcVpHOFBQGEoCAOip8QsRERWRC9sVJDAOB8WWq3C8tw2MU2LgI7Lp2XdaP2woUGRWkpluwzApU9fihLKEoKCkyTYjcRTtMGEQsVCWgTHf0CJhcqgE-I4gJMGAAd0i61DCjgYpYOAwMAMAvKAMZeAF5lEPXA6qYkoSh9iHLmOcGhvw-l-eoU80iEXSEmBuogfoiBAQ1cBsdg5+1DjAhShtKADF2GneoXce6kDgP3SgXBdgt0wTiIOwBqKdhfkgVhvt-aUF3GGa+f5WHsPklHDoORiGq0oOIoMcC44yNaHI-ExwZE-xISOMwcsFDWB1GoqRGiqTDnHs7Aw-ghH82og1DhhIGpcP5jwwhUBhEv34SGcQLCLEvysQQRSLUqQ6i6gInqH9xaVBskEgKmdZZ6nCW4ywOp+4YlfMWRmABRbSAB5AA6rAPWrAAASqTcl6wAKpFMARUypVTqkRiWNgn8uDI72KgZQGBei1ZkOMobcuEAEESinuZQioRhTzxEH5KAAiGA0B1qIEMAAqKAUEYLADgghepR47H4N4RgSRHTdhdIdhPVoDFkpMUDs0gh0Dn6Ekrr-TpxiG5cR-KE92YzzlbNDlAOZIYliiCAA)] [[Source](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67607069/typescript-set-value-type-of-a-deep-nested-object-path)]

```typescript
type Idx<T, K> = K extends keyof T ? T[K] :
  number extends keyof T ? K extends `${number}` ? T[number] : never : never

type Join<K, P> = K extends string | number ?
  P extends string | number ?
  `${K}${"" extends P ? "" : "."}${P}`
  : never : never;

type Prev = [never, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
  11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, ...0[]]

type Paths<T, D extends number = 10> = [D] extends [never] ? never : T extends object ?
  { [K in keyof T]-?: K extends string | number ?
    `${K}` | Join<K, Paths<T[K], Prev[D]>>
    : never
  }[keyof T] : ""

type PathValue<T, P extends Paths<T, 4>> = P extends `${infer Key}.${infer Rest}`
  ? Rest extends Paths<Idx<T, Key>, 4>
  ? PathValue<Idx<T, Key>, Rest>
  : never
  : Idx<T, P>

function setValue<
  T extends { [key: string]: any },
  P extends Paths<T, 4>
>(obj: T, path: P, value: PathValue<T, P>) {
  if (typeof path === "string") {
    const pList = path.split(".");
    const lastKey = pList.pop();
    const pointer = pList.reduce(
      (accumulator: { [x: string]: any }, currentValue: string | number) => {
        if (accumulator[currentValue] === undefined)
          accumulator[currentValue] = {};
        return accumulator[currentValue];
      },
      obj
    );
    if (typeof lastKey !== "undefined") {
      pointer[lastKey] = value;
      return obj;
    }
  }
  return obj;
}
```
